Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture we're going to talk about storing data and specifically storing data using Jaison
does dump function.
So most of our programs will allow users to input certain types of information when users close a program
will almost always want to save the information they entered a simple way to do that involves using
the on module the JCL module allows you to dump simple pite and data structures into a file and load
the data from that file.
The next time the program runs you can also use JS on to share data between different pite and programs
the adjacent data format is not specific to Python so let's have a look and get started.
And as I said we're going to start with the chase on that don't function.
So we write a short program to store a set of numbers and this program will use JS on that dump which
takes two arguments a piece of data to store and a File object.
It can use to store the data.
So how do we do that.
Where we start off with import so import J-Zone next.
That's a phone number.
ECOs Let's go one two three four five six seven eight nine.
There we go.
And zero for good luck.
Now filename equals that same phone number.
Jason and we go with open file name.
I'm gonna be writing to this file.
We want to open it and write mode as File object
Jason but dump
phone numbers file object.
OK.
So let's run that and see what happens.
We get an error because I've left out an S here and we run it again and there we go.
So we have no output but something has happened.
So what does this program do.
Well first we import adjacent modules and then create a list of numbers.
So here we go here and it's just one big number within our list a phone number.
We don't use a file name to store the numbers.
Then we open the file in right mode which allows adjacent module to write data to the file.
So we're doing that here.
We then use the adjacent that don't function to store a list of numbers to find them in the file phone
numbers.
Jason.
So over here the left hand side our program has created a chase on file phone number dodgiest on.
And there we go.
Our number is there.
Never write a program that uses JS on that load to read the list back into memory.